README.rst, before:

GEOMETOR Explorer
=================

The GEOMETOR Explorer is a web-based, interactive application for visualizing and analyzing geometric constructions created with the `geometor.model` library.

It provides a dynamic interface where geometric models are rendered as SVG, and their algebraic properties, expressed in LaTeX, are displayed in detailed tables.

Features
--------

- **Server-Side Rendering:** A Python Flask backend creates geometric models and generates all necessary rendering data.
- **SVG Visualization:** Geometric constructions are rendered as clean, scalable SVG in the browser.
- **Interactive UI:** A vanilla JavaScript frontend provides interactivity:
    - Hover cards display detailed information for each point.
    - Table rows are highlighted when the corresponding point is hovered.
- **LaTeX Display:** Symbolic coordinates and equations are beautifully rendered using the KaTeX library.
- **Dark Mode:** A clean, modern dark theme for comfortable viewing.
- **Screen-Relative Scaling:** All strokes and points maintain a consistent visual size regardless of the zoom level, thanks to the `vector-effect="non-scaling-stroke"` SVG attribute.

Architecture
------------

The Explorer uses a client-server architecture:

- **Backend (Flask):**
    1.  Uses `geometor.model` to build a geometric construction (e.g., the Vesica Pisces).
    2.  Uses logic adapted from `geometor.render` to calculate the SVG bounding box and element coordinates.
    3.  Generates a JSON payload containing:
        - The SVG `viewBox` dimensions.
        - A list of SVG elements (lines, circles, polygons, points) with all necessary attributes for rendering, including styling and non-scaling stroke effects.
        - Data for UI tables, including symbolic expressions formatted as LaTeX strings.
    4.  Serves the frontend application and the JSON data via a simple API.

- **Frontend (HTML/CSS/JS):**
    1.  Fetches the model data from the backend API.
    2.  Uses vanilla JavaScript to dynamically create SVG elements in the browser based on the fetched data.
    3.  Populates data tables with point and structure information.
    4.  Uses the KaTeX library to render all LaTeX strings.
    5.  Manages all user interactivity, such as hover effects and highlighting.

This architecture keeps all heavy computation and geometric logic on the server, allowing for a lightweight and responsive frontend.

Usage
-----

To run the Explorer application:

1.  Navigate to the source directory:
    .. code-block:: bash

       cd geometor/explorer/src

2.  Run the application as a Python module:
    .. code-block:: bash

       python -m geometor.explorer

3.  Open a web browser and go to `http://127.0.0.1:4444`.

Dependencies
------------

The Explorer depends on the following key Python packages:

- **Flask:** For the web server.
- **geometor-model:** For creating the geometric constructions.
- **sympy:** For all symbolic mathematics.

Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome! Please see our [GitHub issues](https://github.com/geometor/explorer/issues) for ways to contribute.

License
-------

**explorer** is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

Commit message:

feat: Implement advanced file handling and status updates
This commit introduces a more robust file handling system, providing a seamless user experience for saving, loading, and managing construction files. It also includes a fix for a critical serialization bug and updates the project documentation.

Key changes:

-   **File Management UI:**

    -   Adds a dropdown menu to the header, dynamically populated with available construction files.

    -   Implements a status bar that displays the current filename and provides non-disruptive feedback on file operations, replacing all previous alert() calls.

-   **Client-Side State:**

    -   Introduces a currentFilename variable to track the active file.

    -   Adds an isDirty flag to monitor unsaved changes, which is set whenever a construction is modified.

-   **Enhanced Save/Open Logic:**

    -   The "Save" button now saves to the currentFilename without a prompt.

    -   "Save As" is available to save a file under a new name.

    -   The "Open" and "New" actions now correctly update the application's file state.

-   **Bug Fix:**

    -   Resolves an AttributeError in serialize.py by correctly accessing data.side_lengths from the Element wrapper instead of the SymPy Polygon object.

-   **Documentation:**

    -   Updates README.rst, ROADMAP.md, and GEMINI.md to reflect the new features and the project's current state.

README.rst, after:

GEOMETOR Explorer
=================

The GEOMETOR Explorer is a web-based, interactive application for visualizing and analyzing geometric constructions created with the `geometor.model` library.

It provides a dynamic interface where geometric models are rendered as SVG, and their algebraic properties, expressed in LaTeX, are displayed in detailed tables.

Features
--------

- **Server-Side Rendering:** A Python Flask backend creates geometric models and generates all necessary rendering data.
- **SVG Visualization:** Geometric constructions are rendered as clean, scalable SVG in the browser.
- **Interactive UI:** A vanilla JavaScript frontend provides interactivity:
    - Hover cards display detailed information for each point.
    - Table rows are highlighted when the corresponding point is hovered.
- **Analysis Engine:** Integrates with `geometor.divine` to analyze constructions and identify key relationships, such as golden sections.
- **LaTeX Display:** Symbolic coordinates and equations are beautifully rendered using the KaTeX library.
- **Dark Mode:** A clean, modern dark theme for comfortable viewing.
- **Screen-Relative Scaling:** All strokes and points maintain a consistent visual size regardless of the zoom level, thanks to the `vector-effect="non-scaling-stroke"` SVG attribute.

Architecture
------------

The Explorer uses a client-server architecture:

- **Backend (Flask):**
    1.  Uses `geometor.model` to build a geometric construction (e.g., the Vesica Pisces).
    2.  Calculates the SVG bounding box and element coordinates.
    3.  Generates a JSON payload containing:
        - The SVG `viewBox` dimensions.
        - A list of SVG elements (lines, circles, polygons, points) with all necessary attributes for rendering, including styling and non-scaling stroke effects.
        - Data for UI tables, including symbolic expressions formatted as LaTeX strings.
    4.  Serves the frontend application and the JSON data via a simple API.

- **Frontend (HTML/CSS/JS):**
    1.  Fetches the model data from the backend API.
    2.  Uses vanilla JavaScript to dynamically create SVG elements in the browser based on the fetched data.
    3.  Populates data tables with point and structure information.
    4.  Uses the KaTeX library to render all LaTeX strings.
    5.  Manages all user interactivity, such as hover effects and highlighting.

This architecture keeps all heavy computation and geometric logic on the server, allowing for a lightweight and responsive frontend.

Usage
-----

To run the Explorer application:

1.  Navigate to the source directory:
    .. code-block:: bash

       cd geometor/explorer/src

2.  Run the application as a Python module:
    .. code-block:: bash

       python -m geometor.explorer

3.  Open a web browser and go to `http://127.0.0.1:4444`.

Dependencies
------------

The Explorer depends on the following key Python packages:

- **Flask:** For the web server.
- **geometor-model:** For creating the geometric constructions.
- **sympy:** For all symbolic mathematics.

Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome! Please see our [GitHub issues](https://github.com/geometor/explorer/issues) for ways to contribute.

License
-------

**explorer** is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.
